June 19-22, 2015
Days 4-7

Jordan needed to study so I had the day to myself.

I walked around TA and found an art gallery which seemed pretty empty. I figured
the guy working there would be bored and might be down to talk for a bit about
the artist, and in the process I'd probably learn more hebrew. I walked in and
we ended up talking for an hour!

I then ended up heading towards a more central part of town and found myself in
Rabin Square. I took lots of pictures, walked around, and had my first Falafel
for lunch. 

I stopped by the apartment for a bit to relax and decided to check out the local
bouldering gym. Unfortunately when I got there, I discovered that the rocks were
poorly maintained, and so it was hard for me to tell which color some of the
rocks were so I couldn't really do many of the courses.

That night was my first Shabbat in Israel. Jordan and I were picked up by a
relative (dad's cousin, Lior Sharf) of ours to have Shabbat dinner with his
family. Lior has three children: Netta (same Netta as in Note2.txt), Neeve, and
Noya. Netta was still in the north, but Neeve and Noya were there for dinner.
The food was amazing (Israeli barbeque). There were no blessings or prayers for
Shabbat, we just sat together and ate and had a good time, which was nice.
Lior and Neeve agreed to join us on our trip to the dead sea.

-----

The next morning, Lior and Neeve picked us up at 9:30am. The drive to the dead
sea took quite a while. In the process, we stopped by a gas station. This was a
gas station in the middle of nowhere and yet it sold fresh bourekas and had an
actual starbucks-style espresso machine and the guy at the counter actually
prepared your drink for you. It wasn't amazing or anything (it's a gas
station!), but that's still something you never see in America.

To get to the dead sea we passed through a security checkpoint to cut across the
west bank. We only went through area A because that's a fairly safe place to be.

Lior had kept saying during the car ride that he knew a special place at the
dead sea that was almost always empty. There was a point in the highway where
the railing opened up and you could turn left (but there was no road). All of a
sudden Lior turned onto it and went offroading. I didn't know a car could do
such things! After some time we made it to an unmarked beach that was completely
empty. 

The dead sea stings. It's like a natural chemical exfoliant. After the initial
few seconds of nervousness, it actually feels kinda nice. 

We ended up staying there for what felt like almost two hours. I collected a
bottle of dead sea mud to take back home with me. Then we got lunch and headed
back home.

---------------

The next day we went to Jaffa. We walked around and saw a bunch of antique
stores. Some were nice and had interesting-looking things (of course, at a total
ripoff). Others looked kinda sketchy, as if most of the things sold there were
stolen. The sketchiest store by far was basically a junkyard where you could
pick something up and haggle for its price. There was a 2003 Mercedes car there
that was super sketch (why would this store randomly be selling a car??).
Probably stolen too.

The rest of Jaffa was beautiful. We got to this hill near St. Peter's Church
that had an amazing view of Tel Aviv's shoreline. For lunch we stopped by Abu
Hasan, considered by many to be the best hummus in Tel Aviv.

That afternoon, we got back and took a quick trip to the beach. We stayed for
around an hour and a half and then went back home to get ready for dinner. I had
plans to meet with my Dad's roommate from college, named Ron, who lived in
Israel. Jordan decided not to come so that he could study more. Ron's daughter,
Inbal, picked me up from in front of Jordan's apartment. Inbal is 19 and is in
the army. Her job is to watch the border with Egypt, where Hamas militants often
try to sneak in through underground tunnels. Inbal sits in a room and watches a
video feed from cameras on the border for two 4-hour shifts every day. Every
other weekend, she gets to come home and take a 2-day break. During a shift,
she's not allowed to look away from the screen at all. Her job is considered one
of the more boring jobs in the Army, but it's safe and border watchers end up
saving lots of civilian lives by watching for terrorists trying to sneak in.

Inbal's younger sister, Elianne, is in high school. In Israel, students in high
school can choose a field that they want to focus on. Elianne has chosen
computer science, which is what I majored in at UCLA. I thought that was pretty
cool and asked her about what they learn in high school. Elianne told me that
the classes are pretty basic, but during their last year they take specialty
CS classes. Some schools have "cyber" (which means both compsec and hacking),
but her school doesn't offer that. Instead she's taking her school's only
specialty: prolog. She said it's considered by many the easier specialty and
doesn't seem too excited. I was just surprised that they learn prolog in
highschool since it's considered a research language and used for things like AI
and logic programming. She mentions that apparently it's often used because it
supports unicode so students can program in Hebrew.

Ron is the CEO of a company which has pioneered a new technique for spinal
surgeries, specifically, a fix for some type of back injury. His wife Ofra plays
the cello professionally. I asked her how long she's been playing for and she
tells me since she was a teennager. From what I've heard, she's extremely good
(apparently she made it into the Tel Aviv Philharmonic, or something like
that, which is considered a big deal). They often have people over to hear Ofra
play the cello.

I gotta be honest and say that during my visit here, the thought of moving to
Israel has crossed my mind. Not seriously, but enough that I decided to ask Ron
about his decision. Something he mentioned that I can't stop thinking about is
that he didn't want to end up having his grandchildren having christmas trees
and celebrating christmas. He has a good point. I don't care much for religion,
and christmas in America is pretty much a secular thing. But it's definitely not my
culture and feels super foreign. I didn't grow up with a christmas tree and
don't want to, just like how most Americans probably wouldn't want to celebrate
Ramadan or Shabbat. It's just different and not right. Most Jews become more
religious when they move to America to kinda stay separated from the secular
christmas culture and retain their identity, but religion isn't my thing. It
seems being in Israel is the only good way to live without having to actively
change my behavior just to be part of the culture I grew up in. In America,
being Jewish is active. In Israel, being Jewish is passive.

------

Today I woke up early and decided to get some breakfast. When I got back, I
decided to chill for a bit and browse the internet.

While chilling, Jordan woke up and told me he wasn't feeling too well. Since he
wanted to go back to sleep, I decided I'd go out on my own and buy teva-naot
shoes. They're only available in Israel and feel super comfortable (same
material as in Birkenstocks, but with a middle-eastern style). After asking lots
of people for directions, I finally found the shopping mall. The Dizengoff
central station market is huge! I walked around a bit, trying to find a map so I
could find my store. I decided to ask some people where the malls map was. They
looked at me strangely, and then realized I'm a tourist and responded (in
Hebrew) "There is no map, we are the map. What are you looking for?". It seems
to get anywhere in Israel you have to ask around. Luckily, random strangers are
always down to help you find whatever it is you're looking for.

Price haggling is the norm here in Israel. At the store, the guy at the counter
told me the shoes I wanted were 380 sheqels. I wasn't sure whether price
haggling was still a thing in fancier stores in shopping malls, so I wasn't
expecting anything, but I asked if he could make the price a little better,
maybe 340 sheqels? Luckily he mishead me and thought I said 300, because his
response was "well, I can go with 330 sheqels". Great! And just like that, I
saved $10 (USD) on my shoes, just for asking. I was probably still ripped off a
bit, but I wasn't expecting anything so I'll just take it as a happy surprise,
and a good lesson to always ask for what you want, because you might get it.

Jordan and I are hanging out at a cafe now while I type this. His friend is
visiting and we have plans to get together tonight and go drinking.
