June 17-18th, 2015
Days 2-3

So on my first day (note 1), we were out drinking at night. Jordan mentioned
something about taking a car trip up to the north to go camping. We were all
drunk and liked the idea and agreed to do it. The next morning around 10am we
set out to find a car rental. We went through around 4 different places which
all gave us bad prices (350-500 shekels total for two days). Finally my cousin
Jordan's roommate (Barris, he's a Turkish Jew) finds this car rental place at an
airport that advertises 24 shekels/day for driving. 

We get there and it turns out they add a bunch of charges like insurance, "new"
driver fees since we're 22 (even though we're from America so we've been driving
a good 2-3 more years than Israelis who are 22), etc. Barris always barters for
everything. He has the philosophy that everything can be cheaper, and the store
owner shouldn't be the only one deciding how much of your money he gets. He asks
if we can get a student discount or a tourist discount. The guy at the counter
laughs, but tells us we can get a tourist discount if we still have the blue
slip they gave us when we entered the country. I have mine but it was scanned
with an Israeli passport so I'd still have to pay taxes + no discount. Jordan
and Barris have long since thrown theirs away. 

Borris and the guy at the counter get into this long argument about it. It's
obvious we're tourists and should get the discount. The guy says it's illegal
since we don't have the ticket for him to scan. Borris says bullshit just give
us the discount, we're still tourists. The guy gets frustrated and starts
telling us we're even worse then Israelis with prices. I laugh. The other guy at
the counter is obviously entertained watching us. He's just chilling and eating
chickpeas and offers us some (btw they were amazing). The guy at the counter
then tells us there's one last charge of like 20 shekels and Barris is like "oh
come on, you can't waive it? No student discount? ..." -- at this point Barris is
cut off by the guy who goes "no student discount, no tourist discount, no
nothing" and while the guy is obviously frustrated, he laughs and we all kinda
laugh. Then the guy tells us that he was able to get us a 7 shekel discount ($2)
for being "good people". We all laugh at that. Barris is just pissed since
online it said the price would be half of what it is now and still brings it up.
The guy is like "know what? Here's a present from me". He drops like 5 shekels
of loose change on the counter that he just happened to have on the desk. Jordan
takes them and the guy is laughing pretty hard that he actually took the change.
We get the car and drive out of there laughing. I'm in disbelief at the whole
exchange. Hey, it's Israel. 

We stop in Herzeliyah and I go to buy a car charger. The first store has a
decent 1A phone charger for 30 shekels. I decide to see if I can find a 2-3amp
charger because they're faster. I walk into a different store and this guy can
tell I'm American because of my accent. He gives me two options: a 1amp charger
for 50 shekels or a 4 amp charger for 100 shekels (1 shekel ~= 1 quarter). He
then is like "and btw, the 4amp charger comes with a 1-year warranty". I tell
him the store right next to his gave me a 1amp for 35 and that everything
fucking has a warranty, that's bullshit (in nicer language). He's like "but this
one is better quality" and I'm like no, I'm an engineer, they're all shitty
quality. Obviously at this point he gets a little prideful and is like fine, go
to the other store and I'm like fine, okay. I then go to a third store and find
the exact same brand of charger as his, but 2amps for 35 shekels. I feel like I
just won the don't get ripped off game. Feels good bro.

We get schnitzel and hummus at this bomb restaurant. Barris runs into someone he
knows there (it's a small country, I feel like everywhere Jordan and Barris are
running into people they know). We realize at this point it's late and since
camping stuff is expensive, we should just stay with our relative Netta in the
north for the night instead of camping. We get her a gift (cheese cake and a
bottle of wine) and Barris as usual asks if there's any student or tourist
discount before we pay. At this point the whole price negotiating thing is
hilarious and so even though I'd normally be nervous because I'm not used to
this, I just stay quiet and try not to laugh. We also pick up steak for a
barbecue along the way.

There's this Israeli Arab liquor called Tubi that Barris and Jordan have been
telling me about. It apparently has khat (pronounced gat) in it. Khat is this
arabic weed that people chew on that's a bit of a stimulant so it keeps you
awake. It's similar to caffeine. That way you don't realize how f-ed up you are.
It's like four-loko I guess. Barris makes sure to pick up a bottle on a stop in
our road trip.

So we arrive at our relative's place at 11pm. She's out at a party with friends,
but her boyfriend Tal is home. Luckily he hasn't had dinner yet either and is
down for a barbecue. He's a chef so he's pro at this stuff. He lives in a
Moshav, which is kinda like a Kibbutz but instead of being communal, everyone's
on their own. So basically it's kinda like a small, spread-out town in the
middle of nature. Everyone knows each other since it's a small community.  His
driveway is just a dirt path and there's a lot of nice trees and nature right
out front. 

Tal's a kinda quiet very chill guy, but we can tell that he's excited to have
people over. Moshavs give residents a lot of quiet and peace since they're out
in nature, and so they probably don't have company over as much -- it's a bit
remote. 

This moshav is right on the border with Syria, which has the whole civil war
ISIS thing going on. I mean, go to google maps and search for Beit Hillel in
northern Israel and see how close it is for yourself. We're talking 1-2 miles. 

So at this point we've cooked the meat and vegetables and given Tal our gifts
(cheesecake and wine). As we eat, Barris pulls out the Tubi. Tal's like heck
yeah let's do this. As the night goes on, we talk and talk and talk. We talk
about language, culture, family, Turkish (Shelafe!), etc. Around midnight our
relative Netta gets back from her party. She's already had a bit to drink and
has a class in the morning, so she skips out on the alcohol. 

As the night goes on Barris mentions getting a text from his mom that apparently
there was a rocket attack in the north from Syria. We figure it's safe since
there's no alarms going off -- the border with Syria is huge, the attack is
probably far away. Since the topic has come up, I ask Tal if every house here
has a bombshelter like in Tel Aviv (btw Jordan's apartment is in Tel aviv and
I'm sleeping in the bomb-proof room in his apartment since it's empty.  Means if
there's a rocket alarm, my room becomes the party room). Tal tells us no, but
there's a central bombshelter for everyone in the community. He tells us that
it's too far away to make it there in the 1 minute of heads-up time that they
get so at this point whenever there's a siren he just says fuck it and chills
out.  He mentions that Netta is always worried, but hey what can you do. The
chance of being hit is pretty small and everyone at this point has a pretty big
fuck-it whatever attitude about the rockets. Besides, Israel has a very low
crime rate.  Especially in small communities like moshavs. If you factor that
in, it probably comes out to being as safe as most places in America.

I look down at the table and discover, for the 6th or 7th time that night, that
my shot glass has magically filled itself with Tubi. I tell Barris and Jordan I
know they're fucking with me and down the shot. I then turn my shot glass upside
down and say I'm taking a break. Tal, who is starting to warm up a lot at this
point, smiles and says "Hey come on, tevalu (have fun)". He turns my shotglass
rightside up and pours us both shots. His enthusiasm gets me and I go for it. We
then switch to Arnak, a different kind of liquor which is only 20% and doesn't
keep you awake. It's a lot safer. 

Tal and Netta have a dog. This dog is tiny and super cute and FUCKING INSANELY
hyperactive. I mean all night the dog was sprinting around non-stop chasing
neighborhood cats even until 2am. I start playing with the dog (I'm become more
of a dog person lately and this dog is too cute). Their dog bites everything
pretty damn hard and you can't hold him without him biting you, but it's cute.
I'm drunk so my pain tolerance is up and so I play with him. 

The next morning we realize that the 4-hour river hike we planned on just isn't
going to happen -- we're all slightly hungover. Tal takes us to breakfast since
Netta's at her class. We go to this cutesy little restaurant/cafe. It's called
lechem'ka (ch = spitting noise. Translates to "bread-ka" in english). I mention
that I'm hungover and Barris pulls out alka-selter which at this point is the
miracle panacea I need. 10 minutes later the food is served and I'm feeling
fan-fucking-tastic. Clutch call bringing the alka-seltzer, Barris!

The food is pretty good. The waiter teases us a bit and makes jokes (this sort
of friendly talking is a thing here -- everyone feels okay talking with
strangers. It's nice). We finish and decide to just go swimming in the Kinneret
instead of hiking -- last night alone was worth the drive.

On the way back after swimming in the Kinneret we get lunch in Tiberias. We
start chatting with our waitress. I ask her about some hebrew slang I'm confused
about -- the term "ben zona" (son of a prostitute). It's usually an insult, but
people have used it as a good term before so I want to know how to tell the
context.  She explains that if you're talking about an object and not a person,
it usually means a good thing. As in, "your hebrew is a son of a prostitute" is
equivalent to saying "your hebrew is fucking awesome". Or "this party is a son
of a prostitute" = "this party's fucking cool". Jordan makes a joke about how
actually you can use it for people too and then calls me a son of a prostitute.
Haha.

That night we get back to Tel Aviv and go swimming at the beach during sunset.
Then Jordan heads to work at the bar across the street. Barris and I are alone
so we go get dinner. We go to a shawarma place off the street. The guy serving
us gets into a chat with us about 4chan and the culture here (separate topics --
they don't have anything to do with each other).

On the way home we stop by a convenience store to get paper towels and a
lightbulb for the apartment. At the checkout line Barris gets surprised by a
very accurate drawing of a cockroach on the counter since it looks real for a
second or two when you first see it. The guy at the checkout counter laughs and
then starts telling us about this guy he knows with a picture of a cockroach
tattoo'd on him and how weird it is. He's going to show us a photo but he can't
find it on his phone. I can't believe how talkative/friendly everyone is here,
even to complete strangers.

Today Barris and Jordan have some work to do. I'm sitting here typing this at a
cafe (it's June 14th at 9am btw). Alfajores (this Argentinian caramel oreo
thing) are really popular at cafes here. I wish they were popular in America
too. 

My plan today is to find someone to talk to to practice hebrew. Tonight we're
visiting my dad's cousin for shabbat dinner.

This is all so jumbled, informal, and grammatically shitty. I'm kinda just
going for a stream of consciousness thing. These notes take time so write so I'm
not editing them much
