June 16th, 2015
Day 1

Yesterday I showed up in Israel! After a long flight, I wasn't sure if I'd be
down for a full day of exploring or if the excitement would be enough to power
me through. I decided I wanted to figure out the Israeli train station here and
meet my cousin closer to his apartment instead of him picking me up -- I figured
it'd be an adventure. One thing I've immediately discovered here is how willing
everyone is to just talk to you, randomly, in public -- whether for a
conversation or if you need help looking for directions. An guy roughly my age
who's in the military on leave helped me find my train. On the train, I had a
nice conversation with a man in his 50s or 60s who told me about the plot of land he owns up
north and about how he grew up. He also helped me get off at the right stop.

Israel is this mix of run-down and amazing. The train station was in a state of
decay, which is also true of many buildings in the city. Regardless, in the face
of this state of poor building infrastructure the city blooms. 

After dropping my stuff off at my cousin's place, we took a monit (shuttle) to a
restaurant. The shuttle is a collective, run by people who live here that are
fed up with public busses not running on the weekends. Each shuttle is a small
old yellow van. When you ride the monit, you're supposed to sit as far towards
the front as possible. So people who just got in to an almost full van go to the
back, and move up as others exit. That way you're close to the door by the time
you reach your destination hopefully. To pay the driver, you get your change
out after you're seated and hand it to the person in front of you. They pass it
forward towards the driver who then gets your change and passes it back through
everyone to you. This was amazing to me -- in America if I tried that, people
would just pocket my money.

We get to the restaurant and instantly my first meal here throws away my
conception that Israeli food in America can be as good as in Israel. It's simply
a matter of cultural focus and quality. The pita is ridiculously soft and the
flavors in my sandwich are amazing.

As we eat, a guy with a leaf of cabbage on his head and a cabbage in his hand
approaches the table next to us. "Want a cabbage hat?" he asks them in hebrew.
My reaction is "what??". The girl says no and kinda laughs. Then the guy
approaches us and asks if we want one. I ask why he's giving out leaves of
cabbage to wear as hats and he responds "because I decided to! It's for pictures
to promote the restaurant". So my cousin and I accept the offer and take a
picture of us with leaves of cabbage on our hats. People here are weird. It's
great.

We go back and change into bathing suits and hit the beach. The beach here is a
way of life. There is a beach here for everyone. The gay beach is the first one
we come across, with rainbow-colored gazebos and flags. Next to it (but
sufficiently far away) is the religious beach, for orthodox jews. They believe
in separating men and women from everything apparently, so the whole religious
beach (thankfully it's small) alots time in the water for men only and for
women/children only. We stop by my cousin's gym (which is on the beach) to drop
off our stuff and get coffee. In line we have a nice conversation with someone
who heard us speaking english and asked us where we're from.

The beach itself is nice. It's very hot and the water is warm enough that my
balls don't crawl back into my body when we jump in. After, my cousin and I
split up (he wanted to work out -- his daily ritual thing) and I head to a cafe
to check the internet, grab something equivalent to a frappucino (Starbucks does
NOT exist here in Israel. They're all coffee snobs and the market was saturated
before Starbucks could enter) at Aroma Cafe (the extremely popular cafe that's
everywhere in Israel. Equivalent of Starbucks).

I then decide to randomly explore the city. I don't have a phone or map and only
have some basic information of the layout. I get lost but find my way after
someone shows me how to get to Dizengoff street.

After we meetup, Jordan, his roommate and I go bar-hopping. Tel Aviv has bars
everywhere and absolutely wonderful nightlife. As we drink I learn about Tubi,
an Israeli hard liquor which has gat in it. Gat is this weed thing you chew
that's a stimulant so it makes you feel kinda good. I think it's Arabic in
origin.  Anyways Tubi is supposedly really bad because it's both alcohol and a
stimulant, so you don't realize how fucked up you are. From the way they're
talking about it, I know I gotta try it at least once (in moderation). Some of
Jordan's friends join us and we continue to go to different bars. We end our
adventure in this science-themed bar. It's supposed to be some sort of perfume
factory. All the drinks are very elegantly dressed and smell nice. Beer is
served in beakers and Erlenmeyer flasks. I excuse myself to go to the bathroom
and discover that they've styled the restrooms by drawing mathematical equations
all over. As I take a piss, a formula for the DFT sits on my left. Some digits
of pi are on the wall in front of me. To my right, the quadratic equation. These
are just some among the hundreds of different equations written on the wall. I'm
too drunk at this point to pay attention to the audio playing in the bathroom,
but apparently it's a bunch of historical stuff.

Israel is a small country, so it's very very easy to make connections,
especially since everyone is so willing to just randomly talk in public. I
mentioned to my cousin that it would be cool to see the Google Tel Aviv offices,
but that you can only get a tour if you know someone that works there. He
mentions that a week ago he met a girl who works there in a bar. He texts her
to see if she could show us the office. 
