26 June - 28 June
=================

Evening June 25th
-----------------

Part of the reason last time I didn't write much was because not much had
happened. I settled into a routine of going to a cafe every morning, studying
hebrew, going to the beach, and then going out drinking at night. That's nice
for a couple days, but I'm glad that changed.

On June 25th, Jordan and I decided to go camping in the Negev. We had no clue
where to stay or where to hike. First thing, on the night of the 25th we went to
Ricoshet, a camping supplies company in Israel. The store was at the central bus
station in TA. The TA central bus station is also a huge shopping mall. It's an
old building though and not a good area. We decide to buy a tent for 90 shekels
($22.50) and a sleeping bag. The first guy in the store tells me that I should
get a real backpack and that I need a 60 liter backpack for 1 night of camping.
I ask how long of a trip I could use it for (if I want to go backpacking in the
future) and he says 1 week. I'm confused at this point because that seems like
overkill for 1 day. I ask the other guy in the store and he tells me I don't
need it. Some people here will lie through their teeth to sell stuff. I leave
the store without a fancy camping backpack -- I'll just use my school backpack.

On the night of the 25th we realize taking the bus just won't work. It takes 3
hours each way and we won't be able to get to our camp site easily. We decide to
rent a car. At this point we've decided on going to mitzpe ramon for camping.
It's right next to the largest maktesh (not sure what the word for it is in
english. It's not a crater, but it looks like one) in Israel and there are a lot
of hiking trails and camp grounds in the maktesh. 

26th of June
------------

The cheapest car rental we've found so far is still the same place that we
rented last time -- the sixt car rental in the local TA airport (NOT ben gurion,
the smaller one). 

We get to the rental place and the same guy is there -- he recognizes us and we
make a couple jokes. Since Jordan's roommate Barris is out of town, there is
definitely much less tension in the room. I forgot my tennis shoes in the last
rental car and ask about them. He says they don't have them anymore (it's been
over a week), but I also forgot something more important that they do still
have. He then pulls my keys out of a drawer. Awesome!

We get in the car and drive off to Mitzpe Ramon. It's a 2 hour drive and we stop
in Ber Sheva for lunch. It's friday and everything closes at 12 for Shabbat.
After lunch, we discover that all the stores have closed -- I guess Ber Sheva
isn't 24/7 party city, like Tel Aviv. 

We get to Mitzpe Ramon. It's a tiny city in the middle of the desert. Thanks to
our exceptional lack of planning, we realize we have no plans and the visitors
center which has information on all the hiking paths and campgrounds is closed
for shabbat. We walk around asking around for good camping places, but everyone
there is also a tourist (on shabbat everyone who lives there goes home for
dinner). Luckily there's this thing called the internet and after a few
minutes of googling, we find Ha'an Be'erot, a campground in the middle of the
maktesh.

The drive to Ha'an Be'erot takes 20-30 minutes. We get there before the sun sets
and pay the 30 sheqel fee to camp there (they have showers, bathrooms, and huts
set up for campers). That night we have a barbeque and drink with our
neighboring campers.  While we're talking, another group arrives and sets up
camp RIGHT next to our tents (in between us and our neighbors, a little close).
Jordan goes to say hi to them, and they invite us to go stargazing with them.
Stargazing ends up just being chatting in the dark while taking long-exposure
shots of the stars. The three of them are traveling together in Israel, after
meeting abroad in South America (I think?). Two are an Israeli couple, and the
third is a French girl. The French girl speaks English, Spanish, Hebrew,
Portuguese and French. cool. 

At the end of the night I get the French girl's contact info :) and we all head
to sleep. 

June 27th
----------

The next morning Jordan and I wake up at 6. After a half-hearted attempt to make
breakfast fails, we have lukewarm tea, hummus and pita, and some candy bars. We
talk to the guy that works at the camp ground and find a good 4 hour hike to do.
By 8:15 we make it to the trail and set off. The hike takes us from the bottom
of the maktesh to the cliff of the wall on the side.  While on top of the side
we decide to try a bit of rock climbing to get to an even higher ledge. At the
top we are greeted with an absolutely amazing view of the entire Maktesh. I
looked up Maktesh and it turns out it's a geological feature unique to Israel.
It's basically a massive valley with steep walls. I'll definitely be posting
photos of it on facebook.

The path down from the cliff is mostly slippery limestone dirt on smooth
limestone rock. We walk slowly and end up spending almost an hour on the
downhill just because of how steep it was. It wasn't dangerous at all, as long
as you go slowly.

At the base, we still have a good 1-2 miles left of hiking and the sun is
starting to rise. it's 10:30am and the temperature is probably in the 90's, if
not 100's. We started the hike with 10.5 liters of water for the two of us.
We're now down to 4.5 liters, which means that the load is lighter and we can go
faster. The remaining part of the hike doesn't really have a demarkated path.
It's all flat and we're just following hiking trail signs posted every once in a
while which are painted on the rocks. In Israel paths are demarcated by these
three painted lines on rocks along the way. We follow the signs. Every once in a
while we miss a sign and drift off path only to see the next one off to the side
and correct ourselves. This makes me realize that since there's no clear path
anymore, these signs are the only things separating us from being completely
lost in the middle of the Negev. 

We get back to the car just in time (11:15). At around 12 it becomes unsafe to
hike in the Negev due to high temperatures. As a victory meal, we eat warm
watermelon, hummus and pita. 

After a 2-hour drive back to Tel Aviv, we head straight to the sea and go for a
swim. After catching a few waves (body surfing -- the waves here are pretty
small), we head back and clean up. I don't remember falling asleep but sometime
after taking a shower I take a nap (was super ridiculously tired). Jordan wakes
me up later in the evening and we go out for dinner with Lior and Orna. They
take us to a restaurant on the beach near the Tel Aviv Mandarin hotel. Some of
the tables are on the sand and water literally washes up to the tables
sometimes. We sit on a slightly higher deck. The restaurant is a "salad"
restaurant. It turns out here, "salad" is a more generic term which can just
mean small dish (like tapas in spanish). We order Hummus, Salad, Tatziki, Pitta
and this cream which has some sort of fish egg mixture in it. The hummus is
fucking ridiculous and I find myself eating crazy amounts of it without paying
attention.

After dinner, we head back home and go to sleep.

June 28th
----------

Nothing much has happened so far today. We just need to return the rental car. I
plan on hopefully going to Jerusalem tomorrow (maybe tonight instead?). 
