28 June - 6 July

Well let's see, it's been a while...

Don't remember much. Jordan and I hanged out a lot, went to the beach, went
to bars. rinse and repeat. We had a lot of fun though. The 1st was the first day
he was gone. Lots of hebrew learned. I bought a book in hebrew and started
reading it. It's really simple (only 1 paragraph per page), but it's a story for
teenagers, not little kids, so it's actually interesting enough to read. Maybe I
don't understand 1-2 words per page, but I can figure it out through context.

1st of July is also the first day that Adam (Shapiro) is in town! We meet up for
lunch at Miznon with his friend Josh (Cauhn) and then afterwards we meet Josh's
friend Shelly. Shelly takes us to Neve Tzedeka and we walked around looking at
street graffiti and these trees they have that are painted white.

That same day we watched the sun set and then went around to some bars along
dizengoff.

On the third of July, Adam Josh and I went to the beach. I didn't have Shabbat
plans so I decided to call Lior and ask if I could join him. Lior tells me he's
visiting his daughter in the north for Shabbat (a 2 hour car-ride away) and then
asks me if I'd like to join. I say sure and he says be ready in under an hour.

I hurry back from the beach and quickly get ready. I'm ready in around an hour,
and call Noya who's supposed to be picking me up to see how I'm doing on time.
I've forgetten that it's Israel and we're running on Israel time here, which
means that I've got a good 20 more minutes.

Noya and her boyfriend Rohee (no clue how to spell) pick me up. Her boyfriends
english is very good, so I ask him how he learned. He tells me he watched a lot
of English TV with Hebrew subtitles. On the car ride up there we talk about
music, the army, family guy, and a couple other things. Through Rohee I learn
that it's the day before Noya's birthday (she's turning 22). I also learn
they've been together already for 8 years!!

After 2 hours we finaly get to Netta's house. I had kinda assumed we were eating
at her house, but there's nothing prepared so I ask. We're driving up further
north to a restaurant in the area. A 45 minute drive later and we're in the
Golan Heights near the border with Syria. In literally the middle of nowhere is
this small little Moshav that we pull into. There they have this cute little
restaurant which is decorated extremely well for a regular restaurant, let alone
one in the middle of nowhere.

We eat food and talk in hebrew (which I don't really entirely understand, but I
understand enough to kinda participate). The food is amazing and so are the
appetizers. 

We get back and manage to all find a place to sleep in Netta's tiny home
(despite there being 9 of us total).

The next morning we wake up and play music as we prepare breakfast and get
ready. Nieve is the last to wake up and just barely makes it in time for
breakfast. Lychee, Netta's hyperactive dog, is the first to wake up and as usual
is running around the house at 30 miles an hour. Magically Tal and Netta can get
Lychee to go back to her dog house and stay there (with the door open) because
they've trained her. Listening to them command Lychee in hebrew was cool too
(Die! Lehamakom! Lychee, Lehamakom!)

Netta's BF, Tal, is a chef at a local restaurant. He cooks eggs while me and
Rohee put some frozen Burekas in the oven and Netta prepares Israeli salad. We
also have cheese from bulgaria and tzfat. The meal was just really really nice,
because we ate outside and Netta's front yard is in the middle of nature.

On that car ride back I find out that we're stopping for a relative's bat
mitzvah. The girl getting bat mitzvahed is my dad's cousin's brother-in-law's
daughter. In Israel there isn't much of a religious ceremony for bat mitzvahs,
just a party (it also depends on how religious you are and what you want). In
this case, it's go-carting. The place is in an Arabic village that's on the way
back to Tel Aviv.

We eat lunch and I meet various extremely nice family members that I've never
met before. Technically they're my dad's cousin's in-laws, so not exactly
related, but family is family.

We had a lot of fun carting. They told us not to pass each other because it's
dangerous (sure sure). I start off and it's a lot of fun, but there's absolutely
no power steering so my hands are killing me after a bit. Tal and I had been
joking around about racing before we started and at this point I decide to slow
down a bit since my hands are hurting on the turns. BAM I get slammed from
behind from some kid.  In the surprise I slow down for a bit and Tal comes and
passes both of us. 

It's war. Before I was driving for fun, but now I'm driving for blood.
Eventually they ask all the drivers to slow down to re-space-out the go-carts,
and I use this as a chance to pass Tal. Despite my poor, dying wrists, I manage
to keep in front of him for the rest of the race.

After that and some more talking, we leave to go back home.

That night, Barris invites me to a going-away party for his friend at IDC. I
decide to go. The party itself is in a 3-story apartment filled with people
(none of whom I know). I end up getting drunk and tired, and finally we leave.

The next day, I end up going to the beach for like 4 hours. I think I spent 45
minutes total in the water. The rest was reading a book in hebrew and
suntanning.

Yesterday was Adam's last day in Tel Aviv. We met for lunch at the Nemala (a
boardwalk/marketplace with restaurants in northern Tel Aviv). After lunch we
walk around and end up in the beautiful hayarkon river park. 

That night we get dinner at Max Brenners and talk for a bit. Around midnight I
have to leave to meet my Taglit friend Daniel since it's my last chance to see
him on my trip here. 

Daniel is in the army. He tells me that for the next week he has to stay on base
as punishment for yelling at his commander. I give him a high-five and say fuck
the system. He jokingly says now the system is fucking me.

After a drink and some talking, we call it a night.

Now it's the morning and I'm feeling sick and I'd like to go out and do
something instead of spending all morning here typing. So I'm not gonna edit
anything. There's probably really bad typos and stuff. 
